<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
        <!DOCTYPE html>

        <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
        <head>
          <title>Chapter 1</title>
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/softcover.css" type="text/css" />
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/epub.css" type="text/css" />
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/custom.css" type="text/css"/>
          <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/custom_epub.css" type="text/css"/>
          <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="styles/page-template.xpgt" />
        </head>

        <body>
          <div id="cha-what_is_big_data" class="chapter"><h1><a href="intro_chapter_fragment.xhtml#cha-what_is_big_data" class="heading hyperref"><span class="number">Chapter 1 </span>What is Big Data (and what is not)</a></h1>
<p class="noindent">Few people have not heard of Big Data.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> It seems to relate to so many things from a cell phone to a social network.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> However, quite similar to other things such as <sup id="cha-1_footnote-ref-1" class="footnote"><a href="#cha-1_footnote-1">1</a></sup>, the concept of Big Data is heavily overloaded.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> So, what is Big Data (and what is not)?</p>
<p>To approach this question, let us first consider the sources of data available today.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Here we will attempt to rank the sources by the amount of data they provide.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Data generated by people who either use smart phones, or post on social networks will likely be at the first place.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> This is to no surprise, considering how much people upload photos and videos of themselves or post on Facebook or Twitter.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> For example, every second, around 4 hours of video is uploaded on YouTube.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> There is as well lots of data in textual form, like e-mails, sentiments, or tweets.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> An important property of the people data is its lack of structure.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> It is prohibitively difficult if possible to apply any meaningful structure on such a data, especially considering its volume, speed, and variety.</p>
<p>The next source of data will likely be the data generated by mobile or stationary sensors.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> A good example here is a modern smartphone typically equipped with the following sensors: accelerometer, geopositioning system, barometer, magnetometer, proximity sensor.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Each of these sensors produce real-time data used by apps.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Unlike data generated by people, the sensor data is much better structured.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> The conventional data processing methods might work here as long as the data volume is not a problem.</p>
<p>The third major source of data is the data generated by organizations.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> The idea to use computers to store and analyze data pertaining to business or goveernment functioning is likely as old as the computers themselves.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> The typical storage for such data, given its well-defined structure is typically a relational database management system (RDBMS).<span class="intersentencespace"></span> According to modern standards, neither the speed nor the volume of the organizational data is considered a challenge.</p>
<p>In summary, we have touched on a few properties that determine the presence of the Big Data phenomenon.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> These are the volume, the speed of data (the velocity), the variety of data, and its veracity.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> The last property is related to a well-known Computer Science concept: “garbage in – garbage out”.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> When the data arrives at a very fast speed like customer reviews of a popular product, the data quality is not necessarily the best.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> Search for ‘banana slicer Amazon reviews’ to see for yourself.</p>
</div><div id="cha-1_footnotes">
  <div class="footnotes">
    <div id="cha-1_footnote-1" class="footnote"><a class="footnote-link" href="#cha-1_footnote-ref-1">1.</a> Artificial Intelligence is one of the examples.<span class="intersentencespace"></span> It is often confused with Artificial Neural Networks and Machine Learning.</div>
  </div>
</div>
        </body>
        </html>