# What is Big Data (and what is not)
\label{cha:what_is_big_data}

Few people have not heard of Big Data. It seems to relate to so many things from a cell phone to a social network. However, quite similar to other things such as [^AI], the concept of Big Data is heavily overloaded. So, what is Big Data (and what is not)?

To approach this question, let us first consider the sources of data available today. Here we will attempt to rank the sources by the amount of data they provide. Data generated by people who either use smart phones, or post on social networks will likely be at the first place. This is to no surprise, considering how much people upload photos and videos of themselves or post on Facebook or Twitter. For example, every second, around 4 hours of video is uploaded on YouTube. There is as well lots of data in textual form, like e-mails, sentiments, or tweets. An important property of the people data is its lack of structure. It is prohibitively difficult if possible to apply any meaningful structure on such a data, especially considering its volume, speed, and variety.  

The next source of data will likely be the data generated by mobile or stationary sensors. A good example here is a modern smartphone typically equipped with the following sensors: accelerometer, geopositioning system, barometer, magnetometer, proximity sensor. Each of these sensors produce real-time data used by apps. Unlike data generated by people, the sensor data is much better structured. The conventional data processing methods might work here as long as the data volume is not a problem.

The third major source of data is the data generated by organizations. The idea to use computers to store and analyze data pertaining to business or goveernment functioning is likely as old as the computers themselves. The typical storage for such data, given its well-defined structure is typically a relational database management system (RDBMS). According to modern standards, neither the speed nor the volume of the organizational data is considered a challenge.

In summary, we have touched on a few properties that determine the presence of the Big Data phenomenon. These are the volume, the speed of data (the velocity), the variety of data, and its veracity. The last property is related to a well-known Computer Science concept: "garbage in -- garbage out". When the data arrives at a very fast speed like customer reviews of a popular product, the data quality is not necessarily the best. Search for 'banana slicer Amazon reviews' to see for yourself.

[^AI]: Artificial Intelligence is one of the examples. It is often confused with Artificial Neural Networks and Machine Learning.
